Hi, and welcome back.
In this video we're talking about filtering,
and in the last video we looked at a few
examples of where missing out on filtering
could result in something disastrous,
like deleting your entire tables,
or modifying all your rows to have some new value.
Let's make an update now to row number one only.
And this is how it would go;
we'd day update the people table,
setting the name now to be equal to Joseph,
but we're adding this where clause on the end,
the where clause which says id equal to one.
That is only going to change the row that has id of one,
setting the name now to Joseph.
I think Jose is a bit nicer, but ya never know.
Notice that in Sequel the equal operator
is used for comparison as well as assignment.
In this case it's used for assignment.
We're setting the new name to be Joseph,
but it's also used for comparison here.
We're only changing those where the id is equal to one.
We're not gonna modify the id here.
We're just checking that they match.
The id column must be one,
and in Python we'd use a double equal sign for this,
but in Sequel you use a single equal sign,
because it knows that you cannot change
things in a where clause.
So you don't need a double equal sign here.
Okay, let's go over to another example.
Now we're going to select using a where clause.
Once again, select star from people,
where the name is Jen,
and that's gonna give us only row number three.
Let's delete.
Once again, same thing, delete from people where id is one,
it's gonna give us
all the other rows other than the first one.
Notice that this does change the database.
So it's not like you'll get a result back of this table,
but this changes the database,
and then you could extract this entire
result set using a select.
So you can see the where statement goes in a pretty
reasonable place for the English language.
Normally at the end, but sometimes it doesn't
go quite at the end if there are other clauses,
like we're gonna look at in a moment.
Here's a few more examples.
Select star from purchases where amount
is greater than 150.
Pretty English like, you know,
selecting where something is true.
Select star from users where the registered
date is less than this magic number here,
and this number by the way, if you've never come across
the integers for dates,
that's a very long integer that represents a date.
That's a Unix timestamp.
It's a number of seconds that have passed
since the first of January, 1970 at midnight.
And it's sort of the way of storing
dates in databases, so that you don't have to deal with,
you know, formatting.
Does the month go first?
Does the day go first?
Just use an integer and everything's solved.
We've got select star from people
where name is not equal to Rolf.
You can do this,
and of course you can do,
select star from purchases where amount
is greater than 150 or the type is online.
You can also use and like here.
Select star from users where username is Jose
and access is admin.
Notice, by the way, that I do something that I'm
not terribly proud of, which is,
I don't put any spaces around the equal sign,
but I put spaces around the other symbols.
When I was making this presentation
I really tried to either put spaces around
the equal sign, or remove the spaces around
the other symbols, but I just couldn't bring myself to it.
For me this looks natural.
Maybe it's just because the way I've been
doing it for a long time.
I couldn't bring myself to add spaces
around the equal sign.
That just felt a bit wrong,
and I couldn't bring myself to remove
the spaces around the other symbols.
That just felt a bit weird as well.
You can put spaces around it.
You can remove the spaces, up to you.
This is the way I like doing it.
I don't know why.
Anyway, so, select, or update, or delete,
where some clause, some Boolean,
and you can use or and and to add
multiple types of Boolean.
And of course, you can only use the column
names that are available on your table
to make these comparisons.
So you can select where the amount
or the type given that these two
are columns on your table,
but the star here will get all your columns.
You can only get some columns if you prefer.
So you can say select id from purchases
where amount is greater than 150 or type is online.
That would be fine as well.
What I'm trying to say is that these comparisons here
don't have to be selected necessarily,
but you can if you want.
Okay, that's it for this video.
Hope you've learned something
about how to use filtering.
And I know we're not going too in depth in here,
but I just wanted to show you enough
so that we can proceed with our milestone project.
So with that said, I'll see you on the next video.